# Data description
This research project will develop an intervention to train Latino youth as supportive peers (or allies) to LGBTQ youth Strategies to reduce stigma used in Brazil will be adapted to develop an intervention for the 4-H youth outreach program which is part of Oregon State University Extension. The goal of the intervention toolkit that will be developed is to create an effective program that reduces social isolation and/or produces civic responsibility. Recommendations for adaptions will be made by 4-H youth, 4-H parents, LGBTQ youth, and LGBTQ service providers through focus groups. These focus groups will be part of the community advisory board. Information gathered from the community advisory board will be used to develop the intervention. 

Qualitative data will be collected from the focus groups. Questions on understanding citizenship and civic responsibility, intersectional identities and solidarity, navigating social institutions and probing questions will be included in the focus group guide. The focus group will be audio recorded and notes will be taken by a research team member. Each focus group will be co-moderated by two research team members and will be about two hours each. Audio recordings will be transcribed for analysis by a research assistant. ATLAS.ti 8, a qualitative data analysis management software, will be used for data analyses. In the end, there will be at least four focus groups and at least four transcripts that are about two hours long. Transcripts will be analyzed and coded through using a variety of coding techniques such as first cycle and second cycle coding methods. In addition, a demographic paper questionnaire will be given to participants. These attributes will be entered into ATLAS.ti as descriptive data for each focus group. Other metadata collected will include photos, interviewers name, co-facilitator name, focus group interviewer demographics, location, date, duration, contexts, recording equipment, research diaries, and the codebook. The total data size for this project will be between 5 and 10 GB. 



# Roles and responsibilities
The PI will be the main person responsible in ensuring the data management plan is followed. Data collection will be conducted by PI and a research assistant. Audio recorders and surveys will be used to obtain the data. The PI and research assistant will be responsible in ensuring the recording equipment works as well as distributing and collecting the demographic surveys from participants. Focus group notes will be taken by a member of the research team in the event something happens to the audio recorders. The research assistant will be responsible for data quality control in terms of the data collection. They will be responsible for testing the audio recorders to ensure they record clearly and placing the recordings at a distance a participant can be heard on the audio recorders. The audio recordings will be transcribed and both the PI and research assistant will check quality of the transcriptions. In terms of the transcriptions, the research assistant will be in charge of organizing the data and assigning attributes to each transcription and using qualitative data analysis software to conduct the data analysis. All members of the research team are responsible for the protection of sensitive and confidential data and the PI will ensure protocols are being followed. The PI will be responsible for ensure no one has unauthorized has access to the data by making sure everyone not on the research team signs a data sharing agreement. Because this study is human subjects research, protecting individual’s confidentiality is essential and as a result the data will have names or potential identifiers removed. The PI will be the main person responsible for data archiving and preservation. In the event a team member leaves, time and funding will be dedicated to ensure the team member leaves a file describing their role in the project, explanation of anything created, and a way to contact them in the event there are any unanswered questions. This will also be a process throughout the data collection and analysis stage.  This will help ensure data management responsibilities of that team member will be reabsorbed a future research assistant or a current team member. 


# Data standards and metadata
There are no metadata standards for this research project. What is currently in the field does not fit the needs of this project so unstructured metadata will be developed. Metadata will be stored in in two places, a read me file describing the project and data collected and within the ATLAS.ti program itself which is what will be used for analysis. Metadata will be created throughout the research process including analysis. The read me file will include the following each focus group transcription:

Project Title: Co-creating a telenovela-based intervention to address social isolation and generate community resilience among LGBTQ youth in the USA Research Institution: Oregon State University Project Director: Dr. Jonathan Garcia Grant: Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
Project Description:
Data Name of file: 
Format: 
Date: 
Creator: 
Facilitators: 
Facilitator Demographics:
Description/Attributes:
Photos:

There will be three types of data formats for the focus group data, MP3 files of the audio, transcriptions of the audio recordings in a read me file, and pictures of brainstorming activities as JPGs. The transcriptions will include verbal statements of what was said and who said it (For example, Facilitator, Co-facilitator, participant 1, participant 2 etc).
Within, ATLAS.ti there will be various opportunities to create or add metadata within the data management software. For example, document groups will be created (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5zwKBFxxE9o) based on specific attributes such as the demographics of the population. The document groups will be based on these attributes. Another attribute that will be coded for is focus group type, 4-H youth, service providers, 4-H parents, and LGBTQ youth. In addition, a description of each file that is imported within the description box of the file in the primary document manager https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wZX3yq7IeJ8 . During the analysis portion, codes will be created through first and second cycle coding methods. These include structural, descriptive, and in vivo coding. Second cycle methods will include eclectic and pattern coding. Finally, overall themes will be developed through thematic analysis.  When developing a code, each code will be given an operational definition to be included in the codebook. There will be at least 30 codes to 100 codes. The codebook can be exported from ATLAS.ti with the operational definition, groundedness, creator, modifier, creation date, and modification date (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sp5xHei_uyI ). Lastly, the analysis portion includes writing analytic memos (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=txmhlUzJiiM). Analytic memos act like a research diary in which the person analyzing the data reflects on the analytical process and comments on new thoughts, questions, ideas for future studies, or explanations of why they did things a certain way or why was something modified.

# Storage and security
The data collected will require extra protection because it is human subjects research. The extra protection required will be reflected in this and the following sections. The audio-recordings will be on the recorders and will be locked in a safe in the PIs office. The audio recordings will be uploaded on the PI's work computer that is password protected. In addition, the audio recordings will be uploaded to the OSU box that is shared by the research team and created by the PI. This will help ensure data does not disappear after once a research team member leaves OSU. The data will be retained for five years since the development of the intervention will take two years and will be pilot tested in the future. Data will be destroyed after ten years from data collection. Incremental backups will be done when there are any changes or updates to documents. Any new document or ATLAS.ti project files created or updated will be saved on the computer and on the drive. In addition, full backups on an external hard drive will be done monthly and the hard drive will be placed in the safe. There will be at least four original copies of the transcriptions or one for each focus group held. The process will not be automated through a program for any updates. File names used will be established using current standards/best practices to use file type, original name, and date for the data (year month day). There will be over 100 total files including documents such as the focus group guides, research diaries, and updated ATLAS.ti project files. 


# Access and data sharing
The main factors that limit the availability to share the data include the use of human subjects in in research and the need for more protection of the data. For the focus groups, audio-recordings will be kept for 10 years and may be analyzed and used in potential future research studies about positive youth development by the main principal investigator. Once data is analyzed, data will be shared in publications. Data shared will include example quotes of overall themes found as well as tables comparing the demographics of each focus group. The data can only be published again by the main PI. The data can be made available to future collaborators through a data sharing agreements where the current PI of this study is on that study. In addition, the data sharing agreement will include a stipulation in which authorized users will have to agree to not attempt to identify focus group participants. The audio-recordings will not be made available to authorized users that signed a data sharing agreement. Instead they will receive transcriptions of the audio recordings with any identifying information removed. 



# Archiving and preservation
The research team has developed an initial preservation plan with everyone’s roles and responsibilities but will be edited as data collection begins and ends. There are three main formats for the focus group data, MP3 files of the audio, transcriptions of the audio recordings in a text file, and pictures of brainstorming activities as JPGs. Audio-recordings will be kept for 5 years in the PI's safe and in a cloud format. Transcripts and pictures will be kept for a longer time of 10 years. Metadata collected will be kept for a similar time frame on a cloud. Everything will be backed up to an external hard drive and a desktop computer. The PI will be responsible for maintaining the archival copy of the dataset. The research team will periodically conduct checks on the data to ensure it works. 

